(swoosh)
We've done the query, we've written one query so far
and we've pulled in the items.
Now we need to learn about the flip side
which is what if you want to push data into our graphfield,
GraphQL API to create stuff,
and that is what we're gonna do on the sell page.
So this is a bit of a big one,
and I wanna make sure that we understand
all the moving pieces to it,
because honestly, if we nail this,
you'd be able to make any app you want because you're,
you have the
(chuckles)
two basic things now which is pulling data and creating data
and then we'll learn how to update the data.
So let's get into that, we're gonna go into our,
we go to our pages here, and we have our sell.js,
we're gonna create a new component
in our components directory,
and we're gonna call that CreateProduct.js.
And we'll do our whole song and dance export,
let's find out what the Reactkeyboard is for,
Reactfunctional component.
Reactfunctional component, export.
Maybe that's it, let's try it, RFCE.
Okay, okay.
See, that's a little bit different than what I wanted,
because like first of all in Next.js
and actually in JSX in general,
you don't need to import React anymore, it's assumed,
and then also I like to just export default
where I write the function.
So, that's okay, it's kind of cool
because it infers the name of the function
from the file name, which, I like that.
Okay, so what we'll do, we'll work with that.
Next up what we need to do is we need a form
and working with forms in Reactcan be a little bit tricky,
and I wanna show you how to like
make that a little bit easier on yourself.
So let's build the form first,
and then we'll deal with the mutation of submitting it
and then we'll also deal with how to upload an image
to the back end, so
let's start with a form tag here,
and let's go in here and give ourselves a label.
And that is going to be for the name.
And then inside of that we want to input,
with the type of text, and it has an ID of name.
It also needs a name of name.
(laughing)
And then a placeholder of name.
And then we can also put the word name right here.
Okay, let's see how that looks.
We'll go into our Sell.js,
and inside of here we will, let's just return a div,
and then we'll put a CreateProduct component in there,
and then we'll import that sucker from where we defined it.
All right, so we have our name input here.
Now, if we wanna hook up an input to some state in React,
I'm gonna show you how to do that
and then I'm gonna show you how to make a use form hook
so that we can sort of automate it for multiple ones,
so the way that hooking up state to a form input works
is usually do something like this,
so we're going to say const,
and we'll say, let's call it name, and set name,
and then we'll say useState,
and we'll set the default state to be Wes.
Okay, so useState is a hook,
we got to import that from React
so import use state from React.
And then what we'll do is we have this piece of state,
which is reactive,
meaning that when that piece of state changes,
it will be updated wherever it's used,
and if you wanna use state in an input in React,
it looks something like this,
so you say value is equal to, curly bracket,
and then you give it your piece of state, right.
So let's open up our dev tools here
and make sure we see any errors going on here.
So here we are, immediately we get an error warning,
you provided a value prop to a form field
without an on change handler.
This will render a read only field if the field
should be immutable use default value
otherwise set an on change or read only, right,
and so if I try to type into here.
Nothing, why not?
Like why can't you type into it?
And that's because React is very, very, very strict,
strict, strict about the whole idea of
one single source of truth.
And if you have stayed in an input
and then you change that input,
all of sudden you have your data, your state in two places,
you have it in state, but you also have it in the input box,
and those can get out of sync really quickly
and that's a big headache.
So, what React does with forms is it says,
all right, you need to listen for a change event
on an input, and when that happens,
you need to intercept what the user had typed,
put it back into state,
and then that will trigger a rerender
and then update the value on there.
So, how that works is we say onChange.
And we can do a little function up here,
we'll do it in line, say event.
And let's just console.log the event to see what we got
working with right here so,
I'm gonna put, type in x.
Boom.
So, this is our event that happened.
And then, in there,
there's a whole bunch of information
about what had happened,
so e.target.
So if we console log e.target, that's the actual input,
and then if we grab the value off of that,
we should see what it is that I hoped I typed,
so I'm gonna type x boom, see there we go, wesx,
but React immediately backspaces it for us
and says no, no, no, no,
you may only show what is set to your piece of name state.
So what you have to do is we have to run set name,
and e.target.value.
And now when I type into this,
you'll see that the state is going to be synced with it,
we can go a little bit further
and open up our React dev tools here,
and we can look for our form here.
I'm gonna click on create product.
You see the state that is associated,
sorry I can't make it any bigger.
But as I change this,
you see that it's updating inside of
the state of that component.
So that's not that bad right, like you,
for every single input that you have,
you make a little piece of state
and then you put a piece of set name on it.
Now, where that can get a little out of hand is like,
what if you've 15 inputs on a form right.
And there's whole libraries,
there format is a really, really nice one for React
if you're doing forms,
but in most of my projects,
I don't necessarily need an entire library for my forms,
I just need to the ability to sync some state of inputs
and have it all in a single object.
So, to handle that, what we do is
I like to create a use form hook
that has a little bit of logic inside of that
and we're gonna do that right now.
So we're gonna go into our lib folder,
right along format money
and we're gonna create a new file called useForm.js.
And we're gonna export default function useForm.
And that will take in some initial state
and we'll just default that to be an empty object,
just in case someone doesn't pass in any default state.
Then what we'll do is we'll create our own state,
so let's do common here,
create in a state object for our fields,
or for our inputs, let's call it inputs,
const, inputs
and set inputs is equal to
and then we'll use a state inside of a hook.
So what we're doing is we're gonna do the exact same thing,
but we're gonna tuck away the complexity of
that multiple pieces of state
and handling updates and whatnot,
we're gonna tuck it away into its own custom hook
that we've may of called useForm,
and that will allow us to
simply just write a couple lines at the top of this one
and use as many form inputs as we want.
So use state, we got to import use state from Reactgood,
and then inside of here we will pass it our initial state,
just in case someone does pass some initial state.
Next up we need to make a little function
called handleChange
and that is going to be the function that gets passed
to the on change handler right here,
so we don't have to manually do it each time,
we can just pass it a little handle change function
and it will do the sort of the heavy lifting for us.
So that will take in the event.
And then in here we simply are just gonna say set inputs.
Now, in this case we don't just say, e.target
.value,
and the reason behind that is because
state is gonna be an object where we have the name input,
and we have the description input, nice shoes,
and the price input.
So it's gonna have a couple different values,
so let me leave that there just so we can visualize
what we're working with right here.
So when you are dealing with an object
of multiple pieces of state here,
what you need to do is you need to set the entire thing
to be an object, you need to copy the existing state,
so ...
inputs,
that's our piece of state
so let's write a little comment right here,
we'll say, copy the existing state.
And then below that we need to just
update the piece of state,
so in our case, if it was the name input,
we would just say, e.target.name or .value sorry,
our e.target is gonna be the actual input itself
and the value is whatever the user typed in there.
The problem with that is
we don't know if it's gonna be the name input,
or if it's gonna be the price input,
let's go ahead and duplicate this here.
And we could change this to price,
and then every single time we have name
on there, there, there,
it would say price,
this I guess stays name.
So, that's kind of weird where you have to,
it has to be dynamic.
So if we run the function against this one,
it has to be for price, if we run the function for this one,
it's gotta be for the name.
So what we'll do is we'll make this little part dynamic,
where we can use dynamic properties, or sorry as like a,
it's kind of like using a variable,
or it is using a variable as the property name so,
say e.target.name is set to e.target.value.
And let me just show you real quick what that is.
I gotta comment out of this price
just for real quick second.
And if we console log e.target.value
and e.target.name,
we should see here,
the name is name
and the value is whatever we typed into there.
And if we were to change the name of this to price.
You see it says price here
so we were able to make it flexible and dynamic that way
by using a variable or a property
as the actual property of the object,
and what that will do is if we have an existing name,
it will just overwrite it
because it comes later in the object,
and that's how we don't have to like,
we don't have to worry about deleting the old name,
it will just overwrite it and handle that update for us.
Okay, so that is our handle change function,
there's a whole lot more logic that needs to go in here,
but right now we're just going to
deal with the very basic handle change.
Then, if you want to surface, either functionality,
or data from a custom hook,
you must return it from that custom hook.
So what we're gonna do is
return the things we want to surface from this custom hook.
So we'll say return as an object
and we're gonna return the inputs.
We are also going to return the handle change function.
So, what we can do now is we can go back
and update that function to use our use form hook,
so we'll go right here, we're no longer gonna use use state,
and we're gonna say const curly bracket inputs
and handle change is equal to use form,
and we'll go ahead and import that use form.
There we go, we no longer need use state,
you can take that out of there.
Now, you might be asking,
Wes, why was that other one square bracket
and then this one is curly bracket?
And that's because we are returning an object here,
and we're destructuring the inputs inhale change values.
So, you see here, const inputs, handleChange, useForm,
then we can go and update this,
so value is equal to inputs.name,
and on change, simply can just be Handlechange.
One thing we do need to do, you see there's an error here,
it's saying
a component is changing controlled to uncontrolled,
we do need to set our
initial values for that form inside of here,
so we'll say name is equal to,
and I this just for testing purposes,
I like to put some dummy data in there like nice shoes,
let's say price is equal to something like that description,
it's going to be, these are the best shoes
and we'll leave it at that for now.
So let's just make sure that still works.
There we go see nice shoes.
And if I were to go to my React dev tools,
go to our create product component.
You see, our hooks, we have our form hook,
and then we have state,
and as I am changing the value of this input,
let's say like backpack,
it is then being updated in the state that we have there.
So we just made like a really flexible thing here,
we should be able to now reuse that whole
song and dance for both the price
and the description in any other fields that we want.
So let's go do this next one here.
The uncomment and VS code doesn't, look at it, like,
it's never worked for me, you can never uncomment in JSX,
should probably open issue about that.
Okay, so label for price, type is equal to,
we can even do like a number if you wanted to.
ID is price, name is price, placeholders price,
value is inputs.price,
and then the on change handler is simply just
handleChange.
There we go.
And we can click these, the tiniest buttons in the world,
like how useless is this input number.
There we go, look at it.
And it updates the value
and you can obviously type in here as well.
One kind of gotcha that we just run into is watch this,
let me refresh the page again
and open up a state, like this is a number.
See, there's no quotes around it,
and as soon as I change it.
You see it,
it pops quotes around it,
so that's gonna be a bit of a bit of a problem
because it's supposed to be a number,
and if we send it to our GraphQL API
as a string with quotes around it, it's gonna say, hey,
I was expecting a number but you gave me a string,
what's going on here?
And the thing about HTML inputs is they
always give you a string,
even if it's a type of number.
So what we can do is we'll go back to our custom hook
and just tuck away a little bit more logic.
We'll go up here.
And let's first destructure
the name, the type and the value from the target.
So it's a const, curly bracket.
We have the value, we need the name and we need the type
and we're gonna pull that off of the e.target.
So again, e.target is going to be the input.
And we're simply just gonna be pulling the type,
the name and the value off of it.
And then we can,
oh, oh, that's wrong, we don't wanna do it up there,
we gotta do it inside of our change handler.
And then we can simply instead of saying,
you know, target.name, and e.target.value,
we just say name and value, but what we wanna do here is,
we'll say, if the type is equal to number,
then what we wanna do is we wanna say value
is equal to parseint(value).
And now, this is not gonna work
because these are const, so change that to a let.
And now I believe when we change the value in here,
it's now being updated as an actual number.
There's one more thing we can do here,
and let's just code this ahead of time,
if it's a file, it requires an array of files,
so we'll say if the type is equal to file,
then the value square bracket zero is equal to
e.target.files,
and that's just a little bit different
when you're working with files,
you need to set the first item in the array to be the files.
That's just how file uploads works, it's a little bit funky,
other little pieces of handy functionality we need is,
if we wanna ever reset the form back to the initial state,
not empty state but the initial state is,
we can simply do this, function, reset form.
And we'll just say setInputs to be initial.
So, we'll take in the initial inputs
and just set them back
so if you ever wanna have a,
I screwed up reset it to what we started with,
and then we'll expose that from the hook right there.
And then we do also need another one called clearForm
which is different than resetting,
but we wanna just zero out all the inputs.
And this is kind of a fun one that I was working on,
I was like, huh, how do you make an,
how do you take an object and loop over all the properties
and set them to be just nothing, right.
And what I came up with is this,
this constant blank state is equal to,
and so, if you want,
if you have an object like const person is equal to name
is Wes,
price, I don't know why a person has price,
but age six, or whatever, and job is dev.
Okay, all right, so I got this person object here.
If you wrap that in object.entries,
it will give you an array
where each item in the array is another array
(laughing)
and each item in that array is the first thing is
the property, and the second thing is the value.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna loop over that,
and set each of these keys to be nothing,
so we'll do that, we'll say, object
.entries, and take the inputs, which is our initial state,
and we'll map over it.
And so let me show you here, map, and then we say map,
and then for each of those, we're gonna get the item.
And let's, I can just return like the item or item zero,
that would give us the keys,
item one would give us the values.
And you can destructure this item a little bit further
by saying the first thing will be called key,
and the second thing will be called value,
and then you could just return the key
or the value,
or in our case, what we're gonna do is,
we're gonna return the key,
and then just nothing for the second value.
And then, look at this,
name, price, age, job, right.
So we can go here, map,
destructure key and value.
And then we'll return an array where we have the key,
and just an empty string, or you could even pass a null,
all of them will work,
empty string I think worked fine for me.
Then, how do we, like if we take something like this,
how do we turn that back into an object?
'Cause this is still an array,
we'll you wrap it in another object.fromEntries.
Boom.
And what that does
is it will then clear out the object for you,
so,
(chuckles)
essentially we turn it into an array, map over it,
set the value to no on each,
or value to empty string on each
and then we turn it back into an object
with object.fromEntries.
So we'll do that, Object.fromEntries.
Here we go,
and then we can simply just say, set inputs, blank state.
And then we'll surface that clearForm,
we're gonna use that once
when somebody has created something,
we're gonna clear the form for them
so that they don't have their old values in there.
And like we could even,
we could even just hook that up to a button right now.
So if we go to our create product,
say button, clearForm.
Say, on click is equal to, whether we call it clearForm.
And we'll have to destructure that clearForm from here,
so handle change, clearForm,
let's also get the reset form as well.
So I think now when we click it, does it work?
It does.
It also refreshes the page,
and I believe we can, see it's telling me it needs a type.
Yeah.
So button, type of button.
There we go, look at that!
And then like let's do it again, let's duplicate that
and then just say, resetForm,
then I believe we can just pipe in a resetForm value here.
Look it goes back, clearForm, resetForm.
Type a whole bunch of stuff in there,
price is ridiculous, oh no, I don't wanna charge that much,
reset it back to what we started with.
Whoo!
Beautiful.
Okay, so I'm gonna stop there,
that was basically just a mini lesson in custom Reacthooks
and dealing with state and whatnot.
In the next one we'll get into
building this out a little bit more
for actually adding the rest of the fields.